.TH MFSMASTER "8" "February 2012" "MooseFS 1.6.26"
.SH NAME
mfsmaster \- start, restart or stop Moose File System master process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mfsmaster
[\fB\-f\fP]
[\fB\-c\fP \fICFGFILE\fP] [\fB\-u\fP]
[\fB\-d\fP]
[\fB\-t\fP \fILOCKTIMEOUT\fP]
[\fIACTION\fP]
.PP
.B mfsmaster \-s
[\fB\-c\fP \fICFGFILE\fP]
.PP
.B mfsmaster \-v
.PP
.B mfsmaster \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBmfsmaster\fP is the master program of Moose File System. Depending on
parameters it can start, restart or stop MooseFS master process. Without any
options it starts MooseFS master, killing previously run process if lock
file exists.
.PP
SIGHUP (or 'reload' \fIACTION\fP) forces \fBmfsmaster\fP to reload all configuration files.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
print version information and exit
.TP
\fB\-h\fP
print usage information and exit
.TP
\fB\-f\fP
(deprecated, use \fBstart\fP action instead)
forcily run MooseFS master process, without trying to kill previous instance
(this option allows to run MooseFS master if stale PID file exists)
.TP
\fB\-s\fP
(deprecated, use \fBstop\fP action instead)
stop MooseFS master process
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fICFGFILE\fP
specify alternative path of configuration file (default is
\fBmfsmaster.cfg\fP in system configuration directory)
.TP
\fB\-u\fP
log undefined configuration values (when default is assumed)
.TP
\fB\-d\fP
run in foreground, don't daemonize
.TP
\fB\-t\fP \fILOCKTIMEOUT\fP
how long to wait for lockfile (default is 60 seconds)
.TP
\fIACTION\fP
is the one of \fBstart\fP, \fBstop\fP, \fBrestart\fP, \fBreload\fP, \fBtest\fP or \fBkill\fP. Default action is
\fBrestart\fP unless \fB\-s\fP (stop) or \fB\-f\fP (start) option is given.
Note that \fB\-s\fP and \fB\-f\fP options are deprecated, likely to disappear
and \fIACTION\fP parameter to become obligatory in MooseFS 1.7.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fBmfsmaster.cfg\fP
configuration file for MooseFS master process (see \fBmfsmaster.cfg\fP\|(5) manual)
.TP
\fBmfsexports.cfg\fP
MooseFS access control file (used with \fBmfsmount\fPs 1.6.0 or later, see
\fBmfsexports.cfg\fP\|(5) manual)
.TP
\fBmfstopology.cfg\fP
Network topology definitions (see \fBmfstopology.cfg\fP\|(5) manual)
.TP
\fBmfsmaster.lock\fP
PID file of running MooseFS master process
(created in RUN_PATH by MooseFS < 1.6.9)
.TP
.BR .mfsmaster.lock
lock file of running MooseFS master process
(created in data directory since MooseFS 1.6.9)
.TP
\fBmetadata.mfs\fP, \fBmetadata\.mfs\.back\fP
MooseFS filesystem metadata image
.TP
\fBchangelog.\fP*\fB.mfs\fP
MooseFS filesystem metadata change logs (merged into \fBmetadata.mfs\fP once per hour)
.TP
\fBdata.stats\fP
MooseFS master charts state
.TP
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bugs@moosefs.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2008-2009 Gemius SA.

MooseFS is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, version 3.

MooseFS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with MooseFS.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mfsmetarestore (8),
.BR mfschunkserver (8),
.BR mfsmount (8),
.BR mfsmaster.cfg (5),
.BR mfsexports.cfg (5),
.BR mfstopology.cfg (5),
.BR moosefs (7)
