.TH MFSCHUNKSERVER "8" "February 2012" "MooseFS 1.6.26"
.SH NAME
mfschunkserver \- start, restart or stop Moose File System chunkserver process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mfschunkserver
[\fB\-f\fP]
[\fB\-c\fP \fICFGFILE\fP] [\fB\-u\fP]
[\fB\-d\fP]
[\fB\-t\fP \fILOCKTIMEOUT\fP]
[\fIACTION\fP]
.PP
.B mfschunkserver \-s
[\fB\-c\fP \fICFGFILE\fP]
.PP
.B mfschunkserver \-v
.PP
.B mfschunkserver \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBmfschunkserver\fP is the data server of Moose File System. Depending on
parameters it can start, restart or stop MooseFS chunkserver process. Without
any options it starts MooseFS chunkserver, killing previously run process if
lock file exists.
.PP
SIGHUP (or 'reload' \fIACTION\fP) forces \fBmfschunkserver\fP to reload all configuration files.
.PP
Starting with version 1.6.0 chunkserver periodically tests stored chunks
(see \fBHDD_TEST_FREQ\fP option in \fBmfschunkserver.cfg\fP\|(5) manual).
.PP
Starting with version 1.6.5 MooseFS master doesn't send metadata change logs
to chunkserver and expect at least one \fBmfsmetalogger\fP\|(8) daemon
to connect.
.PP
Starting with version 1.6.26 chunkserver scans attached disks in background.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
print version information and exit
.TP
\fB\-h\fP
print usage information and exit
.TP
\fB\-f\fP
(deprecated, use \fBstart\fP action instead)
forcily run MooseFS chunkserver process, without trying to kill previous instance
(this option allows to run MooseFS chunkserver if stale PID file exists)
.TP
\fB\-s\fP
(deprecated, use \fBstop\fP action instead)
stop MooseFS chunkserver process
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fICFGFILE\fP
specify alternative path of configuration file (default is
\fBmfschunkserver.cfg\fP in system configuration directory)
.TP
\fB\-u\fP
log undefined configuration values (when default is assumed)
.TP
\fB\-d\fP
run in foreground, don't daemonize
.TP
\fB\-t\fP \fILOCKTIMEOUT\fP
how long to wait for lockfile (default is 60 seconds)
.TP
\fIACTION\fP
is the one of \fBstart\fP, \fBstop\fP, \fBrestart\fP, \fBreload\fP, \fBtest\fP or \fBkill\fP. Default action is
\fBrestart\fP unless \fB\-s\fP (stop) or \fB\-f\fP (start) option is given.
Note that \fB\-s\fP and \fB\-f\fP options are deprecated, likely to disappear
and \fIACTION\fP parameter to become obligatory in MooseFS 1.7.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fBmfschunkserver.cfg\fP
configuration file for MooseFS chunkserver process; refer to
\fBmfschunkserver.cfg\fI\|(5) manual for defails
.TP
\fBmfshdd.cfg\fP
list of directories (mountpoints) used for MooseFS storage (one per line;
directory prefixed by \fB*\fP character causes given directory to be freed
by replicating all data already stored there to another locations)
.TP
\fBmfschunkserver.lock\fP
PID file of running MooseFS chunkserver process
(created in RUN_PATH by MooseFS < 1.6.9)
.TP
.BR .mfschunkserver.lock
lock file of running MooseFS chunkserver process
(created in data directory since MooseFS 1.6.9)
.TP
\fBchangelog_csback.\fP*\fB.mfs\fP
MooseFS filesystem metadata change logs (backup of master change log files;
used only with MooseFS master < 1.6.5)
.TP
\fBdata.csstats\fP
Chunkserver charts state
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bugs@moosefs.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2008-2009 Gemius SA.

MooseFS is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, version 3.

MooseFS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with MooseFS.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mfsmaster (8),
.BR mfsmount (8),
.BR mfschunkserver.cfg (5),
.BR mfshdd.cfg (5),
.BR moosefs (7)
