.TH MFSMASTER.CFG "5" "February 2012" "MooseFS 1.6.26"
.SH NAME
mfsmaster.cfg \- main configuration file for \fBmfsmaster\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file \fBmfsmaster.cfg\fP contains configuration of MooseFS master process.
.SH SYNTAX
.PP
Syntax is:
.TP
\fIOPTION\fP \fB=\fP \fIVALUE\fP
.PP
Lines starting with \fB#\fP character are ignored as comments.
.SH OPTIONS
Configuration options:
.TP
\fBDATA_PATH\fP
where to store metadata files and lock file
.TP
\fBLOCK_FILE\fP
(deprecated)
daemon lock/pid file
.TP
\fBWORKING_USER\fP
user to run daemon as
.TP
\fBWORKING_GROUP\fP
group to run daemon as (optional - if empty then default user group will be used)
.TP
\fBSYSLOG_IDENT\fP
name of process to place in syslog messages (default is mfsmaster)
.TP
\fBLOCK_MEMORY\fP
whether to perform mlockall() to avoid swapping out mfsmaster process (default is 0, i.e. no)
.TP
\fBNICE_LEVEL\fP
nice level to run daemon with (default is -19 if possible; note: process must be started as root to increase priority)
.TP
\fBEXPORTS_FILENAME\fP
alternative name of \fBmfsexports.cfg\fP file
.TP
\fBTOPOLOGY_FILENAME\fP
alternative name of \fBmfstopology.cfg\fP file
.TP
\fBBACK_LOGS\fP
number of metadata change log files (default is 50)
.TP
\fBBACK_META_KEEP_PREVIOUS\fP
number of previous metadata files to be kept (default is 1)
.TP
\fBREPLICATIONS_DELAY_INIT\fP
initial delay in seconds before starting replications (default is 300)
.TP
\fBREPLICATIONS_DELAY_DISCONNECT\fP
replication delay in seconds after chunkserver disconnection (default is 3600)
.TP
\fBMATOML_LISTEN_HOST\fP
IP address to listen on for metalogger connections (\fB*\fP means any)
.TP
\fBMATOML_LISTEN_PORT\fP
port to listen on for metalogger connections (default is 9419)
.TP
\fBMATOCS_LISTEN_HOST\fP
IP address to listen on for chunkserver connections (\fB*\fP means any)
.TP
\fBMATOCS_LISTEN_PORT\fP
port to listen on for chunkserver connections (default is 9420)
.TP
\fBMATOCU_LISTEN_HOST\fP
IP address to listen on for client (mount) connections (\fB*\fP means any)
.TP
\fBMATOCU_LISTEN_PORT\fP
port to listen on for client (mount) connections (default is 9421)
.TP
\fBCHUNKS_LOOP_TIME\fP
Chunks loop frequency in seconds (default is 300)
.TP
\fBCHUNKS_LOOP_CPS\fP
Chunks loop frequency defined as number of chunks per second (no default - this option is alternative to CHUNKS_LOOP_TIME)
.TP
\fBCHUNKS_SOFT_DEL_LIMIT\fP
Soft maximum number of chunks to delete on one chunkserver (default is 1)
.TP
\fBCHUNKS_HARD_DEL_LIMIT\fP
Hard maximum number of chunks to delete on one chunkserver (default is 10)
.TP
\fBCHUNKS_WRITE_REP_LIMIT\fP
Maximum number of chunks to replicate to one chunkserver (default is 1)
.TP
\fBCHUNKS_READ_REP_LIMIT\fP
Maximum number of chunks to replicate from one chunkserver (default is 5)
.TP
\fBREJECT_OLD_CLIENTS\fP
Reject \fBmfsmount\fPs older than 1.6.0 (0 or 1, default is 0).
Note that \fBmfsexports\fP access control is NOT used for those old
clients.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Chunks in master are tested in loop. Speed (or frequency) is regulated by two options \fBCHUNKS_LOOP_TIME\fP and \fBCHUNKS_LOOP_CPS\fP. First defines constant time of loop and second constant speed. When time of loop is constant then increasing number of chunks increases CPU usage. When number of chunks per second is constant then increasing number of chunks increases time of loop. Both options can be defined. In such case at the beginning, when number of chunks is small, time is constant, but when number of chunks became bigger then time of loop increases.
.PP
Deletion limits are defined as 'soft' and 'hard' limit. When number of chunks to delete increases from loop to loop then current limit can be temporary increased above soft limit, but never above hard limit.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2008-2009 Gemius SA.

MooseFS is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, version 3.

MooseFS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with MooseFS.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mfsmaster (8),
.BR mfsexports.cfg (5)
.BR mfstopology.cfg (5)
