.TH MFSMASTER "8" "July 2009" "MooseFS 1.6.0"
.SH NAME
mfsmaster \- start, restart or stop Moose File System master process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mfsmaster
[\fB\-f\fP]
[\fB\-c\fP \fICFGFILE\fP]
.PP
.B mfsmaster \-s
[\fB\-c\fP \fICFGFILE\fP]
.PP
.B mfsmaster \-v
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBmfsmaster\fP is the master program of Moose File System. Depending on
parameters it can start, restart or stop MooseFS master process. Without any
options it starts MooseFS master, killing previously run process if PID
file exists.
.PP
SIGHUP forces \fBmfsmaster\fP to reload \fBmfsexports.cfg\fP file. It
doesn't affect already active connections.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
print version information and exit
.TP
\fB\-f\fP
forcily run MooseFS master process, without trying to kill previous instance
(this option allows to run MooseFS master if stale PID file exists)
.TP
\fB\-s\fP
stop MooseFS master process
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fICFGFILE\fP
specify alternative path of configuration file (default is
\fBmfsmaster.cfg\fP in system configuration directory)
.SH FILES
.TP
\fBmfsmaster.cfg\fP
configuration file for MooseFS master process (see \fBmfsmaster.cfg\fP\|(5) manual)
.TP
\fBmfsexports.cfg\fP
MooseFS access control file (used with \fBmfsmount\fPs 1.6.0 or later, see
\fBmfsexports.cfg\fP\|(5) manual)
.TP
\fBmaster.pid\fP
PID file of running MooseFS master process
.TP
\fBmetadata.mfs\fP, \fBmetadata\.mfs\.back\fP
MooseFS filesystem metadata image
.TP
\fBchangelog.\fP*\fB.mfs\fP
MooseFS filesystem metadata change logs (merged into \fBmetadata.mfs\fP once per hour)
.TP
\fBdata.stats\fP
MooseFS master charts state
.TP
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bugs@moosefs.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2008-2009 Gemius SA.

MooseFS is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, version 3.

MooseFS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with MooseFS.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mfsmetarestore (8),
.BR mfschunkserver (8),
.BR mfsmount (8),
.BR mfsmaster.cfg (5),
.BR mfsexports.cfg (5),
.BR moosefs (7)
