.TH MFSMETALOGGER "8" "November 2009" "MooseFS 1.6.7"
.SH NAME
mfsmetalogger \- start, restart or stop Moose File System metalogger process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mfsmetalogger
[\fB\-f\fP]
[\fB\-c\fP \fICFGFILE\fP]
.PP
.B mfsmetalogger \-s
[\fB\-c\fP \fICFGFILE\fP]
.PP
.B mfsmetalogger \-v
.PP
.B mfsmetalogger \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBmfsmetalogger\fP is the metadata replication server of Moose File System.
Depending on parameters it can start, restart or stop MFS metalogger process.
Without any options it starts MFS metalogger, killing previously run process
if PID file exists.
.PP
mfsmetalogger exists since 1.6.5 version of MooseFS; before this version
\fBmfschunkserver\fP\|(8) was responsible of logging metadata changes.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
print version information and exit
.TP
\fB\-h\fP
print usage information and exit
.TP
\fB\-f\fP
forcily run MFS metalogger process, without trying to kill previous instance
(this option allows to run MFS metalogger if stale PID file exists)
.TP
\fB\-s\fP
stop MFS metalogger process
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fICFGFILE\fP
specify alternative path of configuration file (default is
\fBmfsmetalogger.cfg\fP in system configuration directory)
.SH FILES
.TP
\fBmfsmetalogger.cfg\fP
configuration file for MFS metalogger process; refer to
\fBmfsmetalogger.cfg\fI\|(5) manual for defails
.TP
\fBmfsmetalogger.pid\fP
PID file of running MFS metalogger process
.TP
\fBchangelog_ml.\fP*\fB.mfs\fP
MFS filesystem metadata change logs (backup of master change log files)
.TP
\fBmetadata.ml.mfs.back\fP
Latest copy of complete metadata.mfs.back file from MFS master.
.TP
\fBsessions.ml.mfs\fP
Latest copy of sessions.mfs file from MFS master.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bugs@moosefs.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2009 Gemius SA.

MooseFS is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, version 3.

MooseFS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with MooseFS.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mfsmaster (8),
.BR mfsmetalogger.cfg (5),
.BR moosefs (7)
